In this lecture, you'll learn about Leased Lines. A Leased Line is a dedicated physical connection
between two locations.
It has fixed reserved bandwidth, which is not shared with anyone else, and the same bandwidth is available
in both directions.
So if you've got a Leased Line which is being used for your Internet connection and it's a 2 Mbps
Leased Line, you've got 2 Mbps going up to the Internet, and you've got 2 Mbps coming down as well.
That's different than some other options, like some versions of DSL.
The company may own the cable infrastructure themselves, but far more commonly, it's going to be leased
from a service provider for a monthly fee.
That's where we get the name 'leased line' from. With our leased lines,
the first location is typically a corporate office, and the second location is typically either another
corporate office, and that provides point-to-point connectivity between the two offices,
or it could be going to a data centre that's connected to the company's existing WAN that provides multipoint
connectivity between offices,
or it could be going to a data centre that's connected to the Internet, providing Internet connectivity
and optionally a corporate office connectivity using Internet VPN.
The data centre we're talking about here is a data centre at the service provider.
So an example of a Leased Line, this is the one you saw earlier, we've got our office in New York and
an office in Boston, and we put in a point-to-point Leased Line between those two offices.
Let's say that our servers are in New York.
Our users in both New York and Boston can now access those servers over a private network connection.
We're also going to want to have Internet connectivity as well.
So, for example, in New York, we got a Leased Line going out to the Internet from there. Our users in
New York can access the Internet from there,
and also our users in Boston, they could send their traffic over the Leased Line to New York
and then break out to the Internet from there.
Some other topology options that we have, we could put in a Leased Line going out to the Internet and
New York, and also a Leased Line going out to the Internet in Boston. That gives us Internet connectivity
from both sites,
and then we could configure a VPN tunnel that's going over the Internet. That gives us connectivity between
both sites as well.
So in that example, we're using the same Leased Line for both of our Internet and our office WAN connectivity
as well.
Another way that we could do it similar to the last one is where we have Leased Line going out
to the Internet in New York and Boston,
and we also put an a Leased line directly between New York and Boston as well.
Now, obviously, we've got one extra Leased Line here,
so this is going to be a more expensive option.
The reason we would do this is that we don't want the corporate traffic between New York and Boston
going over an Internet VPN.
We want it going over a direct Leased Line. That way, we're going to get
SLA for the traffic between the offices, we're going to get guaranteed uptime,
and also delay and loss. We wouldn't get that if we were sending the traffic over the Internet.
So our leased lines use a serial connection requiring the correct physical interface card in the router.
They don't use an Ethernet port.
Now, like I said at the start of this section, different service providers will use different terminology.
So another service provider may offer you a Leased Line, which is not actually using a serial connection.
But as far as Cisco were concerned for the CCNA exam, Leased Lines is direct point-to-point connections using a serial
port. Common bandwidth options for our Leased Lines,
it depends whether you are in North America or in Europe, or another part of the world.
In North America, we've got the T1, which is 1.544, so 1 and a half Megabits
per second (Mbps).
In Europe we use an E1, which is 2 Megabits per second.
Now, whichever country you're in, it's highly unlikely that you would have the option of a T1 or an
E1.
If you are in North America, you can get a T1.
You can't get an E1.
If you're in Europe or Australia, for example, you can get an E1 if you're in another continent
like Asia.
It depends what country you're in, whether the service provider is going to offer T1s or E1s
there. We can also get higher bandwidth connections as well.
For example,T2 is 6 Megabits per second, and E2 is 8 Megabits per second. There's also even higher
bandwidths as well, the T3 and T4, and the E3 and the E4. Further back in the past,
we would get slower bandwidth connections like this, like 64 Kbps or 128 Kilobits per second (Kbps), 256 Kbps or 512 Kbps, etc.
So, lots of different options for the bandwidth on your Leased Lines.
Obviously, the higher the bandwidth, the more expensive it's going to be.
Now, there's benefits and drawbacks with our Leased Lines. Big benefit is that they have fixed reserve
bandwidth for you.
It's not shared with anyone else.
And because of this, that means that the service provider can give you a Service Level Agreement with
guarantees for uptime, and traffic delay, and loss on the link,
but you have to pay for that kind of service.
So, Leased Lines are typically more expensive than the other options. There can also often be a longer
lead time to wait for the installation.
So because of that extra cost, copper or Fiber Ethernet connectivity options down to your CPE,
that's the Customer Premise Equipment, are becoming more common than serial Leased Lines
are.
You can still get these, but less expensive options are often being used now.
Satellite connections share the same characteristics as our cabled leased lines.
So, that's why I'm mentioning them
also in this lecture. They're typically expensive and lower bandwidth.
So, why would you use a satellite connection?
Often it's the only option if you're in a hard to reach area, like if you're working in mining or oil
and gas, and you want to put in one connection on an oil rig. Satellite is normally going to be your
only option there.
There's one last thing that I want to tell you about here that you don't actually need to know for the
CCNA exam, but I'm going to include it so that you don't get confused when you're working on real
world deployments.
That is the T1 and E1 links were also commonly used for connections to the phone network, that's the PSTN,
the Public Switch Telephone Network, just like you connect to from your phone at home
if you still have one, or from your cellphone. Now, the analog phone cable to your house is capable of carrying
only one call,
but if a company connects a T1 or an E1 to the phone network, they're going to be able to carry
much more than just one call over that single cable.
If they've got a T1 digital line, it can carry 24 concurrent calls, and E1 can carry 30 calls.
So this is good for the company,
they don't have so many cables going into the building.
Also, it can come with additional phone services as well.
So back in the day, you would very often see T1 and E1s being used for a company's connection to
the phone network.
Nowadays, VoIP, Voice over IP using SIP, the Session Initiation Protocol, over an Ethernet WAN connection
to the Telco is more popular.
So, E1 and  T1 used to be super popular.
It's being replaced by SIP connections, usually going down to an Ethernet interface at the company though.
So, looking
If we are using T1 or E1 going out to the phone network, we've got the same example company again
with an office in New York and in Boston. Looking at the office in New York, on the router there, they've
got three different T1 interfaces.
One of the interfaces is connected out to the Internet,
another one is a direct connection to the office in Boston,
and then the third connection is connected to the phone network.
So now that company, if they make a phone call, say we've got a user with an IP phone in their desk
in New York, and they call Boston, that call will go over the T1 direct link between the two offices.
It's better to do it that way than sending it over to PSTN because then, the company doesn't have to
pay toll charges.
But the company, they're not going to be just calling between their own internal users.
They need to be able to call suppliers and customers on the outside as well.
So if I'm in New York and I phone a customer anywhere outside the company, then the call is going to
go via my router, then out the T1 to the phone network to get to that customer.
Okay, that's everything that I needed to tell you about T1s, E1s, and the other bandwidths we can
have with our Leased Lines for now.
I will see you in the next lecture.